Add documentation for the Elvia integration (#30688)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/elvia.markdown

---
title: Elvia
description: Documentation for the Elvia integration.
ha_category:
  - Energy

> ha_release: 9999.9 #placeholder version

Author: Placeholder version, needs replacement.

ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@ludeeus'
ha_domain: elvia
ha_config_flow: true
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> The Elvia integration will import you grid consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Elvia integration will import your grid consumption.
```

You can use the Elvia integration, regardless of which provider you are subscribed to as long as Elvia operates the grid.

The imported data can be used in the [Energy dashboard](/docs/energy/) and with the [statistics-graph card](/dashboards/statistics-graph/).

> ## Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

To use this integration, you need to create an API token.

> 1. Start by logging in to your [Min side](https://www.elvia.no/logg-inn/)
> 2. Once you are logged in, select your main account (This will usually be the one with your name on it).
> 3. Select the "Tilganger" tab.
> 4. Under the "" section, select the "Opprett token for målerverdier i API"
> 5. In the dialog select the meter(s) ([see note below about multiple meters](#multiple-meters-for-a-single-api-token)) you want to import values for, give it a name (like "Home Assistant integrasjon") and use the "Opprett" button to create your token.
> 6. Copy the token shown in the dialog, and paste that in the integration configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start by logging in to your [Min side](https://www.elvia.no/logg-inn/).
2. Once logged in, select your main account (Usually the one with your name on it).
3. Select the **Tilganger** tab.
4. Under the "" section, select the **Opprett token for målerverdier i API**.
5. In the dialog, select the meter(s) ([see note below about multiple meters](#multiple-meters-for-a-single-api-token)) you want to import values for, give it a name (like "Home Assistant integrasjon") and use the **Opprett** button to create your token.
6. Copy the token shown in the dialog, and paste that in the integration configuration.
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Updates

The integration will fetch new data every hour.

> The first time it runs the data for the past year will be imported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first time it runs, the data for the past year will be imported.
```

## Multiple meters for a single API token

> While you can select multiple meters when you create your token, the integration will only allow 1 meter for each configuration of it.
> So if you are using the same token for multiple meters, you need to add the integration multiple times and selecting a different meter each time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While you can select multiple meters when you create your token, the integration will only allow 1 meter for each configuration.
So if you are using the same token for multiple meters, you must add the integration multiple times and select a different meter each time.
```

---
title: Elvia
description: Documentation for the Elvia integration.
ha_category:
  - Energy

> ha_release: 9999.9 #placeholder version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2024.2
```
